---
layout: news
picture: "default.png"
title: "Alice & Eve - a runner-up for the Minerva Informatics Equality Award of Informatics Europe"
---

For the 9th consecutive year, Informatics Europe (IE) presents the Minerva Informatics Equality Award, recognizing successful initiatives that support women in Informatics research and education at all stages. "Alice & Eve: a celebration of women in computing" initiative, a joint effort among several Dutch universities since 2020, has been recognized as one of the runners-up.

The steering committee of Alice and Eve, comprising Marieke Huisman, Sophie Lathouwers, Alma Schaafstal and Marielle Stoelinga from University of Twente, Cynthia Liem from Delft University of Technology and Alexander Serebrenik, Eindhoven University of Technology, is honored by this recognition. It highlights the importance of the work being done by our team in promoting diversity and inclusion in computer science. Since establishing the event in 2020, our goal has been to showcase the incredible contributions of women in computer science, and this award is a testament to the impact that the initiative has had so far.

Alice & Eve is a unique event that brings together women in computing, not to focus on gender challenges, but to celebrate their excellent work and research. At the symposium, it is inspiring to see the wide range of research topics covered, from quantum computing to cybersecurity, and how female speakers share their knowledge and expertise with passion and dedication. These speakers serve as role models for young scientists, demonstrating what is possible and helping to build a more inclusive and supportive community in the field of computer science.

The poster competition accompanying the symposium is also a significant feature. Here, students and early-career researchers present their work and engage in lively discussions with fellow participants. The competition fosters collaboration and learning, providing a platform for emerging talent to shine. We have seen firsthand how these interactions spark new ideas and connections, which is a key part of what makes Alice & Eve such a meaningful event.

One of the highlights of Alice & Eve is the exhibition that accompanies Alice & Eve. By showcasing the portraits and stories of 30 women computer scientists from various backgrounds and regions, the exhibition brings visibility to the important contributions of women in this field. The diverse range of women portrayed, from historical figures like Ada Lovelace to contemporary scientists working in various fields, sends a powerful message that women have always been, and continue to be, essential to the progress of computer science. 

The fact that the exhibition is able to travel to different venues, including universities and conferences, allows it to reach a wider audience, which helps to inspire even more young people. Our next step is to make the exhibition travel in Europe.

Being recognized with the Minerva Award as runner-up is a significant milestone for Alice & Eve, and it reflects the importance of continuing to showcase the contributions of women in computer science. While there is still much work to be done in terms of achieving true diversity and inclusion, this recognition encourages us to keep moving forward. Ultimately, Alice & Eve is about celebrating the work of women in computer science and showing that their contributions are valuable and impactful. We are proud to be part of this initiative. Therefore, we are grateful for the recognition from Informatics Europe.

Marieke Huisman, Sophie Lathouwers, Cynthia Liem, Alma Schaafstal, Alexander Serebrenik and Marielle Stoelinga 
