---
layout: news
picture: "default.png"
title: "Join Us at ERMSEI:Cybersecurity 2024 - Empirical Research Methods PhD Spring School in Utrecht, May 13-17"
---

We are excited to announce [Empirical Research Methods in Software Engineering and Informatics: Cybersecurity Edition (ERMSEI:Cybersecurity 2024)](https://edu.nl/nwu7p), taking place on May 13-17. This PhD school, a highlight since 2013, aims to merge theoretical knowledge with practical application in software engineering and informatics, focusing on cybersecurity this year.

__Why Attend?__
ERMSEI 2024 is your gateway to the empirical side of cybersecurity and software engineering. The course offers hands-on experience, group work, and discussions to help you master empirical research methods. From analysing study designs to crafting your own research projects, this school is designed to boost your research skills.

__Who Should Join?__
This event is perfect for early-career researchers in Cybersecurity, Information Security, Computer Science, or Software Engineering. Whether starting your PhD or looking to incorporate empirical methods into your research, ERMSEI 2024 is tailored for you.

__Pre-Register Now__
Do not miss this opportunity to advance your cybersecurity research. More information on the event page: https://edu.nl/nwu7p.  Pre-register by March 15, 2024, at [https://survey.uu.nl/jfe/form/SV_42C7optbkvA6bD8](https://survey.uu.nl/jfe/form/SV_42C7optbkvA6bD8). For pre-registration, please prepare a brief motivation letter about why this school will be beneficial in your research. In case the capacity is reached, we will select participants based on these motivation letters. 

Participation in the school incurs a small fee (250 euros). We have a limited amount of scholarships to cover the fee available thanks to support from ACCSS. If you need a scholarship, please use a corresponding opt-in question in the form.

Join us for a great experience at [ERMSEI:Cybersecurity 2024](https://edu.nl/nwu7p) in Utrecht.