---
layout: news
picture: "default.png"
title: "Programming Languages in the Netherlands: Call for Talk Proposals"
---

## The 4th VERSEN Workshop on Programming Languages in The Netherlands

After the successful launch of this new workshop series with PLNL’18,
PLNL’19, and PLNL’23 (following the COVID hiatus), we are happy to
invite you to give a presentation and participate at PLNL’24 in
Groningen, colocated with DisCoTec. The purpose of PLNL is to bring
together researchers in the area of programming languages in The
Netherlands (and neighbouring countries ). The workshop targets
programming language research in the broad sense, including, but not
limited to, the design, implementation, theory, application, and
teaching of programming languages.


## Call For Talk Proposals

The workshop will consist of a number of contributed talks. We strive
to have interactive sessions with plenty of discussion by the
audience. This year we will have 20 minute slots for presentations in
which we would to have at least 5 minutes for the audience to ask
questions and raise discussions.

The coffee and lunch breaks will allow for networking with colleagues
and meeting new people. Junior and senior researchers are equally
welcome and encouraged to submit a talk proposal.

Researchers that are not from The Netherlands, but for example, from
neighbouring countries like Belgium or Germany, are also welcome to
participate. The language of the workshop is English.

Submissions for talk proposals should be described in an abstract of
at most 300 words. Proposals do not need to represent original work.
For example, proposing a talk about (recently) published work is fine.
Please submit your abstracts via EasyChair [here](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=plnl2024).

See [this website](https://conf.researchr.org/home/plnl-2024) for more information.