---
layout: news
picture: "default.png"
title: "PriSC’26: Call for Presentation"
---
 
* Submission Deadline: Fri 17 Oct 2025
* Acceptance Notification: Mon 1 Dec 2025 (tentative)
* Workshop: Sun 11 Jan 2026

Submission website: [https://prisc26.hotcrp.com](https://prisc26.hotcrp.com)

Workshop website: [https://popl26.sigplan.org/home/prisc-2026](https://popl26.sigplan.org/home/prisc-2026)


The Workshop on Principles of Secure Compilation (PriSC) is an informal 1-day workshop without any proceedings. The goal of this workshop is to identify interesting research directions and open challenges and to bring together researchers interested in working on building secure compilation chains, on developing proof techniques and verification tools, and on designing software or hardware enforcement mechanisms for secure compilation. The 10th edition of PriSC will be held on January 11 in Rennes, France, together with the ACM SIGPLAN  Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL), 2026.

Anyone interested in presenting at the workshop should submit an extended abstract (up to 2 pages, details below) covering past, ongoing, or future work.
Any topic that could be of interest to secure compilation is in scope. Secure compilation should be interpreted broadly to include techniques that span programming languages, architecture, and systems. Presentations that provide a useful outside view or challenge the community are also welcome. 
This includes presentations on new attack vectors, such as microarchitectural side-channels, whose defenses could benefit from compiler techniques.
