---
layout: default
title: About
published: true
---

## About SEN Symposium

This is the first national symposium for Dutch researchers in the field of _Software Engineering_. The goal is to provide a yearly forum bringing all of us researchers in this broad field together and reinforcing our network.  The symposium is focused on the  exchange of research results and to address new research directions, related to the societal challenges we are addressing.

### Software Engineering 

Software is driving us; based on the availability of cheap and fast computing and networking hardware, software is now a key factor in our private, public and professional lives. We expect the role for software to grow in the future:

* Innovative products and services are becoming _software only_ or at least _software centric_: what is new will be written as source code;
* Software quality is becoming a key factor in process, product and service quality, and quality of life in general: software complexity (flexibility and maintenance cost), energy consumption, personal safety, information security and privacy are key quality aspects of software with high societal impact.
* Software is driving scientific advancement, enabled by in-silico experimentation (modeling and simulation) and data mining (big data): new scientific insights are generated by software.

From an industrial perspective: software engineering is the art of building and maintaining high quality software 
in an efficient manner. This entails knowledge, skill and technology for managing not only the source code but also people 
and organization. 

The research field of software engineering is similarly multi-faceted. The research community in The Netherlands
studies all aspects of software engineering from all possible angles: programming, design and architecture, process, testing, and uses 
a plethora of research methods to accomplish results: formal methods, design studies, experiments, analytics, data mining.

Due to the nature of software it is natural for academic results in software engineering to transfer with ease to their application in an industrial context. And, challenges from an industrial context translate quickly to open academic questions.

It is  urgent that software engineering research and its transfer is happening: we as a society need to be able to better understand and manipulate software, because software is influencing our way of living in very profound manners.

### Organization

The SEN symposium is organized by [Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI)](http://www.cwi.nl). CWI is the national research institute for mathematics and computer science in the Netherlands and is an institute of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research ([NWO](http://www.nwo.nl)).

_Team_

* Frank de Boer
* Jurgen Vinju
* Tijs van der Storm
* Susanne van Dam